Consultation on Guidance for Transparency in Automated Decision Making | OAIC
We use cookies on this site
We use cookies to analyse traffic and to improve your browsing experience on our website. To find out more, read our privacy policy.
Close
Skip to main content
News
Join our team
Contact us
Home
Privacy
Privacy
Your privacy rights
Privacy complaints
Australian Privacy Principles
Privacy guidance for organisations and government agencies
Notifiable data breaches
Privacy legislation
Privacy assessments and decisions
Privacy registers
Privacy for Kids
Freedom of information
Freedom of information
Your freedom of information rights
How to access government information
Freedom of information guidance for government agencies
Freedom of information legislation and determinations
Information Commissioner decisions and reports
Freedom of information statistics for the OAIC
Australian Government freedom of information statistics
Consumer Data Right
Consumer Data Right
Information for consumers
Consumer Data Right complaints
Consumer Data Right guidance for business
Consumer Data Right legislation, regulation and definitions
Consumer Data Right assessments
Digital ID
Engage with us
Engage with us
Consultations
Submissions
Translations
Events
Networks
Research and training resources
About the OAIC
About the OAIC
What we do
Who we are
Join our team
Access our information
Our regulatory approach
Our corporate information
Commissioner Priorities
Information policy
Serving legal documents on the Australian Information Commissioner
News
Join our team
Contact us
Engage with us
Consultations
Consultation on Guidance for Transparency in Automated Decision Making
Engage with us
Consultations
Consultation on Part 14 of the FOI Guidelines — Disclosure Log
On this page
Consultation on Guidance for Transparency in Automated Decision Making
Closing date for submissions is Monday 15 June 2026
Published:
18 May 2026
The OAIC invites interested parties to respond to the Issues Paper that will inform our Guidance for Transparency in Automated Decision Making. BackgroundThe Privacy and Other Legislation Amendment Act 2024 introduced an automated decision making (ADM) Obligation. From 10 December 2026, APP entities that use personal information in ADM with the potential to affect rights or interests will be required to provide information in their privacy policies about the kinds of personal information used and the kinds of decisions made using ADM.The OAIC is seeking information and views to inform the development of the Guidance for the ADM Transparency Obligation. This includes views on scope.As part of this process, the OAIC invites Commonwealth government agencies, private sector organisations, civil society, academia and any other interested parties to respond to the Issues Paper, attached below. Consultation materialsAutomated Decision-Making Issues Paper (PDF, 514 KB)Automated Decision-Making Issues Paper submission questions (PDF, 191 KB)How to make commentsQuestions are included in the paper to guide comments. You are invited to answer some or all questions, or to comment on issues more broadly.Please ensure your submission includes the corresponding question numbers and submit via email to privacyreformtranche1@oaic.gov.au.The closing date for submissions is Monday 15 June 2026.Please note, this consultation is not a statutory requirement. The OAIC has chosen to seek views to help inform the development of the guidance by identifying key issues, perspectives or gaps. However, the inclusion of specific feedback is at the OAIC’s discretion.Submissions may be made available to the public on the OAIC website. Please indicate when making your submission if it contains confidential information you do not want made public and why it should not be published. Requests for access to confidential comments will be determined in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act 1982. Privacy collection statementThe OAIC will use the personal information it collects during this consultation for the purpose of developing guidance and considering issues raised by the Issues Paper.
Did you find this helpful?
Yes
No
We'd love to hear more!
Please tell us more
Rate your experience
We'd love to hear more about your rating
What did you come here to do?
How can we improve this information?
⨯
Share
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Site mapCopyrightTerms and conditionsPrivacy policyAccessibility
Contact us
1300 363 992
Monday to Thursday 10 am to 4 pm (AEST/AEDT)
Language
Please select…
العربية繁體中文ελληνικόςItalianoEspañolภาษาไทยTiếng Việtਪੰਜਾਬੀကညီကျိာ်简体中文ܐܵܬܘܿܪܵܝܵܐनेपालीFilipinoهزارگیEasy English
Follow us
Acknowledgement of Country
The OAIC acknowledges Traditional Custodians of Country across Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters and communities. We pay our respect to First Nations people, cultures and Elders past and present.
© Commonwealth of Australia